I'm about to present you with just five
minutes of edited clips from a Chinese
government created documentary so yes it
is in a sense propaganda but I think
most of you in the audience will be
shocked at the extent to which even this
propaganda reveals that the Western
mainstream press has been lying to you
lying in recent months but really now
lying for many years about the nature of
the political problem in cynjohn and
this may lead you to question the extent
to which the Western media has also been
lying to you
with the nature of the solution however
brutal
however inhumane that the Chinese
government has been implementing in the
same territory after these few clips I'm
going to have a few reflections on why
it is that misinformation and outright
lies dominate Western journalism on the
politics of Asia and why it is that I
have absolutely no hope that things will
get any better in this field in future
over the years this border area of our
super fetcher in decision Weger
autonomous region has been the scene of
the war against terrorism your origin
Ebola gender was lieutenant again in
2015 an armed gang attacked a coma in
bhaijan County in our Zoo they killed 16
people including three policemen and
wounded 18
[Music]
this picture from the my monitor shows
the brutal killing Wang gongs unit was
sent to catch the terrorists
larger Alma's job intersect
genetic amazed that they get show up
terminate column coalition birth every
room is not Irish paddy chop see and to
say you're not convinced she wouldn't
get sick did he
terone was the only gang member to
surrender
oh the others were killed in the police
manhunt his grandfather
Molitor de niñas turned him in the 74
year old told us at that moment there
was no other option
Kent madam our Neutral Philip last nigh
that modern man nebula a very a coachman
with a great purchase jacket i dae-kyun
Molitor d says his grandson is
responsible for his crime he also says
her home had been brainwashed by
extremist ideology mainly from others
with close links with the East Turkestan
Islamic movement now based outside India
the etim is seen as a terrorist and a
separatist organization throughout the
world
[Music]
[Applause]
chaos was rampant in China's westernmost
region
violent attacks were targeting civilians
of all ethnic groups explosions were
frequent in almost all parts of the
Rieger autonomous region King John
became a battlefield in China's fight
against terrorism April 30th 2014 a duty
south railway station a knife attack and
a suicide bombing three people died and
a 70 die were wounded this selfie video
shows Rasheed making explosive devices
before the attacks he was the main
suspect Rasheed learned to make IEDs
from an online video produced by the
East Turkestan Islamic movement or the
Etim well Dustin welcomes marginally
smiley a la pêche most the foreign
friend Rasheed mentions is is Mahut soup
a member of the etim is my yo-yo soup
introduce him to two associates to carry
out the suicide bombing both of the men
died some are you supposed to generate
come over to the window - yeah cuz it
generates Jets away
joning are you a cheater and - just how
you bring salsa according to the police
is my uuly soup was the black hand of
the April 30th attacks he used religion
to recruit members taking spiritual
control over them he then asked them to
carry out violence while he hate outside
the country China's police say the April
30th attacks were typical in Shinya in
December 2003 China's Ministry of Public
Security outlawed the IDI I am
it was the first time the government
formally recognized that a terrorist
group was operating inside the country
Hassam xu was killed by Pakistani troops
in the same year but the terrorist
activities have continued throughout the
years the Etim has taken credit for a
series of attacks in several Chinese
cities these include the 2013 Tiananmen
Square car bombing and the 2014 slashing
and hacking at the creaming railway
station in southwest China Chinese
police say these are not isolated
incidents before the tournament attack
the terrorist group pledge an extremist
campaign on a barren hill on the
outskirts of raunchy and soon after the
Tiananmen attack a radical Islamist
group claimed responsibility and wound
of future attacks in the Chinese capital
they made another machine if a dialogue
a minute a labor swappable de allah
allah is no belong boo jihadi I'm
Elliott 36 American tech a birthday
hockey me Tina
Papa hymning Sunday
I would like to think that anyone who
disagrees with my own political approach
to this problem would nevertheless have
the detachment to recognize that there's
a huge gap between the way the Western
media presents this issue and reality
there is such a huge gap between Western
media bias and reality the case tale of
this that even a very casual viewing of
the other side of the story presented by
the government of China is enough to
really set off alarm bells to really
make us apprehensive and of course
what's going on here is much more than
just bad journalism anyone has just been
casually interested in this issue will
now start to question well isn't it a
problem that the Western media has so
totally distorted the importance of the
situation when they're presenting it to
politicians and when politicians are
kind of mirroring back they're kind of
echoing back the assumptions of the
journalists you know in their own
attempts to sort of pander to the
audience to get approval from the crowd
there's a problem here with the message
presented to the general public there's
a problem with the message that's
presented to politicians and then the
message that comes from politicians in
the Western world because the
politicians themselves very rarely do
research they are for the most part
dependent on the journalists as their
only source information so we have a
society in which it's not the case that
politicians are providing journalists
with the facts politicians tend to make
statements courting the public opinion
that are derivative of whatever the as
assumed facts are that the journalists
are then currently trading it this is a
widespread and deep problem and I have
to admit it's not new hmm however I do
think we now live in an era when this
problem is getting worse
and it will in future get worse still
Oh libraries the why that is I use this
term ambulance chaser a great deal and
the image of an ambulance chaser is of a
lawyer who sees some accident sees some
disaster and just decides this is my
chance to get famous this is my chance
to get on TV this is my chance to make
some money and so they run after the
ambulance they chase after the disaster
the accident whatever it may be without
understanding anything about the
situation so I mean yes it's originally
an idiom used about a corrupt lawyer who
was just trying to get famous or make
money or just trying to get his face on
the evening news and he's getting
involved with a complex situation
without knowing who's to blame you know
who even caused the accident of what the
problem was
who's the good guy who's the bad guy or
how how complex the situation may be but
I use the term more broadly to describe
a lot of the behavior I see both among
journalists and politicians public
figures every kind it seems to me that
in modern American culture to some
extent in Canada England and so on also
there's this terrible despicable
tendency for people to just throw
themselves into any controversy with the
presumption of their own moral
superiority and the presumption that
they're doing something morally positive
in repeating what may be really false
and harmful informant information to the
audience so as I've already described
there's a process here whereby the
people who present themselves as leaders
of public opinion are very often really
followers the president United States
may just be passively repeating things
that he read in the newspaper that
morning or that he heard from a TV
station like Fox News with the current
president but past presidents they read
other newspapers but they could be just
as derivative in their thinking and in
passing on to the public as fact
assumptions that may be really dubious
in their origins that may
the result of very little research and
certainly not of informed opinion now
what's the cure what's the way out of
that well the way out is to have people
with real expertise doing real original
research and the problem is that that
costs money and that the expertise
required including just the ability in
languages I would say is many more years
of hard work and much deeper and broader
hard work than the type of work that
goes into becoming a medical doctor how
many years and how much money does it
take for someone to become a normal
general practitioner general medical
doctor general family doctor working
maybe working in a shopping mall sir I
see doctors offices and places like
shopping malls sometimes mmm doesn't
matter much if it's in a hospital or
shuttle medical doctors as you may know
tend to deal with the same problems
again and again they have a very
repetitious job and about 25% of their
time is spent doing paperwork the
impression you get of the life of a
medical doctor from watching Hollywood
movies and soap operas might be much
more dramatic and interested in that but
if you just pause and reflect on it
being a medical doctor the daily tasks
of dealing again and again with
complaints of diarrhea and acne and
obesity joint pain the most common
ailments in any given demographic in any
given jurisdiction coming in again and
again and of course the almighty common
cold the occasional broken arm we tend
to very much glamorize how much
education is required because the cost
is prohibitive but if you spend $30,000
on tuition every year in some cases
people spend $50,000 on tuition but you
can look it up um nevertheless a medical
doctor in the United States of America
can expect to earn
200,000 US dollars a year every year
after they finished that degree so it
just doesn't seem like too much of an
imposition to require them to go through
so many years of of training now if you
started with a white American who spoke
no language other than English and was
born and raised in New Jersey and this
white American let's just say he was
very talented in philosophy and politics
let's just say it was a white American
from New Jersey who had some aptitude in
that area he said hey you know what we
want to put the money into training you
so that you really are prepared to be an
expert to do active research and to
offer informed opinion on complex
political situation in a place like
cynjohn China how many years and how
much money per year do you think it
would take for that hypothetical
gentlemen to become profoundly fluent in
Chinese fluent enough in Chinese that he
could read newspaper articles and
political documents from the Chinese
government and evaluate verbal
statements given by Chinese politicians
in in Chinese and how long would it take
him to build up the ability in the
Turkic language spoken in cynjohn so
that he could say listen to radio
stations in the local language which is
completely unrelated attorneys with my
whole different field of study many many
years of hard work there so that maybe
he could even listen to recorded
telephone conversations do this kind of
intelligence evaluating work and how
many years would it take for him to gain
a nuanced balanced knowledge and
understanding of just what was going on
in local politics I have to ask myself
these questions all the time it's so
much working and do you want to do the
work just to be at the level where when
someone mentions a local
politicians name you know not the Prime
Minister or not the press not it not a
major both issue but some local person
who's in the administration that comes
up with them all where you have
knowledge oh yeah yeah I know that guy
and when you mentioned his name I can
tell you four or five things he's done
over the last ten years I know I know
something about that politicians
political leanings so to have that level
of familiarity with local politics at
the provincial level at the city level
town by town to be able to speak on in
this case the efforts of the police of
the education system of the military
over say the last twenty years and to
know at that level of precision what's
been going on and to have some sense of
the character and motivations of the
people at different levels what's been
successful what's been tried what's
failed you know maybe some of the pilot
projects the government tried and then
abandoned them what that explains why
they adopted a different strategy little
later um to train and educate someone to
play that role would cost much more
money and require much more dedication
than training someone to be a normal
medical doctor who can deal with the
common cold pregnancy twisted ankle
diarrhea the regular medical problems
that that people commonly have and
education in that area I'm in a position
to know I'm in a position to complain it
costs just as much as the education to
become a medical doctor if not much more
and the pay you can expect the possible
earnings you could ever have if you
develop this kind of specialized
expertise in political science of Asia
shall we say is absolutely zero and
that's why people like myself don't
develop the expertise we don't get the
university degrees we don't go on to
that kind of career it's very easy
and very lazy to say well everyone's
entitled to their own opinion not
everyone is entitled to their own facts
what we need are people who are capable
of carrying out original research what
we need are people who are really
capable of presenting an informed
opinion and given the economics and
given the difficulty of accessing any
kind of meaningful education of this
sort that it's not going to happen the
situation is going to get worse and
worse and worse and I say that as
someone who's sunk years of his life
into developing ability with the
languages and developing knowledge of
the history and development knowledge of
the contemporary politics in countries
like Cambodia and Laos with a keen
awareness that I was one of very very
few Western Western voices who had any
expertise in that area and could offer
kind of unbiased analytical and
pro-democracy view of that part of the
world and then looking at the road ahead
and realizing there was absolutely
nothing but penury and personal
devastation
[Music]